# blast2dem

This tool can reads billion of LIDAR points from the LAS/LAZ
format, triangulates them a seamless TIN, and rasters the TIN
onto a DEM that can optionally be tiled. The output is either
in BIL, ASC, IMG, XYZ, DTM, TIF, PNG or JPG format. The color
ramps can be inverted with '-invert_ramp'.

For BIL, ASC, IMG, DTM, and XYZ output one typically stores
the actual '-elevation', the '-slope, or '-intensity' values
whereas the TIF, PNG, and JPG formats are usually used for a
'-hillshade', '-gray', or '-false' coloring, or for the '-rgb'
raster. The particular range of values to be color mapped can
be clamped using '-set_min_max 10 100' or their range computed
with '-compute_min_max'. The color ramps can be inverted with
'-invert_ramp'.

By default the generated raster is sized based on the extend
of the bounding box. If the LAS/LAZ file was generated using
lastile, its extend can be set to that of the tile using the
'-use_tile_bb' option. Any lastile-generated buffer that the
tile may have had is then not rastered. This allows to avoid
boundary artifacts and yet create matching tiles in parallel.
It is also possible to define the raster extend with setting
'-ll min_x min_y' and '-ncols 512' and '-nrows 512'.

Automatically a KML file is generated to allow the resulting
DEM to be displayed inside Google Earth (for TIF/PNG/JPG). In
case the LAS/LAZ file contains projection information (i.e. a
VLR with geokeys) this is used for georeferencing the KML file.
It is also possible to provide the georeferencing information
in the command-line.

By default triangles whose edges are longer than 100 meters are
not rasterized. This value can be changed with '-kill 200'. The
value is always assumed to be meters and will be multipled with
3.28 for LAS/LAZ files where x and y are known to be in feet.